# Assignment-0--Data-Basics-GitHub-and-Pull-requests-

The data set I analyzed was a Netflix Titles data set.  What I did was use R to analyze the dataset, and what I chose to analyze was content type, country of origin, ratings,  and release year.  First, how I loaded the data set into R, I used the read_csv function from the Tidyverse package, but first I ran the code for the tidyverse, then the read_csv function, because the read_csv function does not exist until the tidyverse package is loaded. Then I use the glimpse() function to examine the structure of the data set. This helped me examine the data set better because it included the number of observations, variable names, and data types. After that then I use pipe operator (%>%). The use is to pass the Netflix data set through a sequence of data cleaning and summarization steps, with the final results stored in a new data set, which I called it movievsshows_count. Then kept analyzing the number of movies and TV shows on netflix and I calculated it by using function count(type), and the values in the type column. No missing values were removed for the step, and I chose that because the type variable contains complete information for all titles. As well, the results for that were movies on netflix was 6,131, and TV shows were 2,676.

After that, I made a list of which countries produce the most netflix content and did a top 10. Rows with missing country values are removed. I first used the pipe operator (%>%). Again, the use is to pass the netflix data set through a sequence of data cleaning and summarization steps, with the final results stored in a new data set, which I called it country_count. I use the filter()  function to keep only rows that meet the condition and that ones did not have missing country values, and the other function was !is.na(country), and I use this code because it means keep rows where country is not missing. Because some titles list multiple countries in a single cell, so these entries are split into separate rows to ensure each country is counted individually. Now, the results are sorted to identify the top producing countries. For the Results 1. United States: 3,689, 2. India: 1,046, 3. United Kingdom: 804, and after that, the results were about 450 or lower than for the last 7. 


This code here analyzes the distribution of netflix content ratings using the rating column. As well, similar to the code for which countries produce the most netflix content. We started with using the pipe operator and named it rate_count, then used the filter function, then used!is na to remove rows with where the ratings are missing and also filtered out incorrect entries that contain duration values like 66 min, for example. After cleaning the data, it counts how many titles fall into each valid rating category, such as TV-MA, PG-13, or TV-14. The results show that the top 3 were, number 1 TV-MA: 3,207, 2 TV-14: 2,160, 3 TV-PG: 863, and then after that last 11 ratings were 800 or less. Last thing I coded was a line chart and I use the ggplot2  package to make a visualization trend in netflix content over time. For year_count That data set is used where release_year  is on the x-axis and n( the number of titles release that year) is on the y-axis. Then I use the geom_line() function and that draws a line connecting the number of tiles for each year, and that shows me how content production has changed over time. The labs()  function adds a descriptive title and axis label to make the chart more easier to understand. The results show on line chart that there were very few titles before the 2000s, but there was a slow growth from 2000 to 2010, and then there was a good amount of increase after 2010, and that shows Netflix's expansion in original content. 


# Assignment (regression extensions) - Upload 2 files (On Canvas and GitHub): a document with all answers and an R script file with your code.

1. The attached wages.xlsx Download wages.xlsx dataset contains data on the hourly wage, age, and education of 80 workers at a single manufacturing firm. You are interested in whether age has a quadratic effect on predicted wages.

A. The scatter plot I made comparing hourly wage against age shows that it's a non-linear relationship.  Shown in the chart, wages tend to increase with age during early career and in mid-career, and it shows that the peak is around the middle age. Then for older workers it tends to be a decline.  This visual evidence shows that a linear model is not the best at capturing the relationship. For the regression results, this confirms this as well. In the linear model,  age is not a statistically significant predictor of wage because the p-value is .194 and that's above .05 and the model explains very little variation in wages with a R² of .02. For the quadric model this is the better option because it shows that both age and age squared a highly statistically significant with a p-value of <.001 so,  less than 05 and with a negative coefficient on age squared indicating decrease returns to age. The quadric model also provides a much better fit,  with an R² of .4005 and a lower residual standard error.

B. For the multiple regression model the results had education as a strong positive effect on wages for each additional year.  Education increases wages by about $1.44 per hour,  and this effect is highly statistically significant having a p-value of <.001. Age had a small positive coefficient(.047), but it is not statistically significant because of the p-value being .127, that tell us that controlling for education, age alone does not have a strong linear effect on wages. 

C. These results confirm that for part A, the relationship between age and wage is nonlinear, which means even after controlling for education, allowing age to enter quadratically improves the goodness of fit and reduces the unexplained variation.  So, this means the quadratic specification of age is preferred over the linear specification. 

D. I use the quadratic multiple regression model,  the predicted hourly wage for an individual with 16 years of education increases from age 30 to age 50, and then decreases by the age of 70. 

E. According to the model, the age at which someone with 16 years of education attains the highest wages is 50 years old. 


2. The AnnArbor.xlsx Download AnnArbor.xlsxfile contains data on a portion of the rental market in Ann Arbor, MI. The data includes the monthly rent, number of bedrooms, number of bathrooms, and the square footage of 40 rental properties. 

A. The plot of rent against bedrooms shows generally a positive linear relationship, with rent increasing as the number of bedrooms rises. The relationship between rent and bathrooms is mostly linear, though there's some scattering in rent values for higher numbers of bathrooms. The Relationship between rent and square footage is nonlinear,  with rent increasing at a decreasing rate, suggesting that a log transformation of square footage may better capture this relationship. 

B. When I estimate the multiple regression model with monthly rent as a dependent variable and long transformed square footage,  number of bedrooms,  and number of bathrooms  as explanatory variables.  Results was that square footage and bedrooms have a statistically significant positive effect on rent,  while the number bathrooms is not statistically significant.  This model showed the predicted monthly rent for a $1,600 ft rental with three bedrooms and two bathrooms is $1,540.

# Assignment (Upload files on Canvas and GitHub) - Time Series and Forecasting

1. The attached Sales.xlsx Download Sales.xlsxdata contains a time series of weekly sales.

A. The 3rd week, 4th week, and 5th week of moving averages does become more smooth than the original data to reduce fluctuations. MA3 reacts faster to the changes because it averages  fewer weeks, MA4 has more weeks than MA3 and because of that it reduces short term fluctuations more, MA5  is smoother and lags behind trends more because it averages over more weeks overall than the other two. This then, helps us understand the overall trend without being misled by weekly volatility. 

B. The SES forecast with alpha = 0.5 produced a point forecast of 17.99 for weeks 30 to 34. The value remains constant because SES with a fixed alpha stabilized after incorporation all the previous observations for the data. The forecast also includes 80% and 95% confidence intervals,  showing the range  within which future sales are likely to fall,  showing uncertainty in the predictions. The SES smooths past sales data while giving moderate weight to the recent observations and that provides me with results of a balanced and reliable forecast.

C. The SES forecast with alpha = 0.5 had an MSE of 9.04, MAE 2.51, and MAPE of 13.01%. These show how closely the forecasted values match the sales. The low value shows that the SES model tracks the sale data well, and balances adaptability to recent changes as well as smoothing of the weekly fluctuations.  These error metrics show that SES again provides a reliable forecast compared to simple moving averages. 

D. The value for alpha that minimizes the MSE for your exponential smoothing forecast is .324. This is fairly low and shows that the model gets slightly more weight to recent sales while still considering past observations,  which then helps achieve the lower forecast error. Using this alpha the SES model balances smoothing with adaptability to recent changes, improving accuracy compared to the .5 fixed alpha. Then this optimal alpha as well ensures the forecast is close as possible to the actual sales data. 

E. The 4th week moving average (MA4) has the smallest MSE (4.85), MAE (1.83), and MAPE (9.45%) compared to all other forecasting methods; therefore, it has been the most accurate in tracking sales against the actual numbers. MA3 and MA5 performed slightly worse where MA3 reacted faster but it was a bit more unstable,  while MA5 was smoother but lagged behind some changes. With that the SES forecast with alpha = .5 has higher errors (MSE = 9.04, MAE = 2.51, MAPE = 13.0), And that makes it less accurate for this specific data set. So, overall the MA4 Forecast performed the best and provided a good balance between smoothing and adaptability. 

Case Problem 1: Forecasting Food and Beverage Sales for Karen (pg. 450)

1. The time series plot of monthly food and beverage sales shows an upward trend over the 3-year period in the time series plot, it shows with the straight linear lin, that the restaurant is expecting steady growth.  Adding to that, the upward trend is as well a strong seasonal pattern,  with sales peaking at similar months each year and declining during other months. This shows the seasonal fluctuations are consistent across the three years, and that suggests stable seasonality. The data shows both Ttend and seasonality, and that implies that forecasting methods accounting for both components will be appropriate. 



2. The regression model we fitted predicts monthly food and beverage sales using a combination of the time trend and monthly dummy variables. The coefficient for the time variable t  is 1.017,  so that indicates for us, on average sales increase by about $1,017 per month as the restaurant grows. Now the monthly dummy coefficients represent how each month's sales differ from the Baseline month, which is January.  An example is that February is estimated to be $20,684 lower than January, then March is $16,368 lower, and so on. That reflects to us that seasonal patterns and sales throughout the year.

All the coefficients are highly statistically significant,  as shown by their very small p-values,  meaning that both the trend and seasonal effects have meaningful effects on the variation in sales. The residual standard error of 4.44 shows that the model’s predictions are generally within $4,440 of actual sales. The model also explains over 99% of the variation in monthly sales (r-squared = .9942). This means an excellent fit to the data. This model captures both the upward trend in sales over 3 years, and the recurring seasonal fluctuations. This provides us with a reliable basis for forecasting sales in the upcoming fourth year.


3. The forecast model predicts that January sales in the fourth year will be about $286,750. But,  the actual sales were $295,000,  which results in a forecast error of about $8,250. So, this means that the model is slightly underestimates the actual sales for that month.  Even though there is a difference between the forecast and the actual value, the error overall is relatively small compared to the overall sales. Forecasting models does rely on historical data, trends,  and as well seasonal patterns, so it is normal for some of this variation to occur due to factors such as changes in, for example, customer demand,  promotions, or tourism. What I can do to reduce Karen's uncertainty about this process is, instead of how we're doing with the model now, we update the model regularly as new data becomes available,  and forecasts can be presented as a range of expected values rather than just a single number. This helps to show that forecasts are estimated and provides useful guidance for planning and future sales, and helps reduce Karen’s uncertainty. 


